Big Data Processing Pipelines:
A Dataflow Approach.
Most big data applications
are composed of a set of operations
executed one after another as a pipeline.
Data flows through these operations,
going through various
transformations along the way.
We also call this dataflow graphs.
So to understand big data
processing we should start by
understanding what dataflow means.
After this video you will be able to
summarize what dataflow means and
it's role in data science.
Explain split->do->merge as a big
data pipeline with examples,
and define the term data parallel.
Let's consider the hello
world MapReduce example for
WordCount which reads one or
more text files and
counts the number of occurrences
of each word in these text files.
You are by now very familiar with
this example, but as a reminder,
the output will be a text
file with a list of words and
their occurrence frequencies
in the input data.
In this application,
the files were first split into HDFS
cluster nodes as partitions of
the same file or multiple files.
Then a map operation, in this case,
a user defined function to count words
was executed on each of these nodes.
And all the key values that were output
from map were sorted based on the key.
And the key values with the same word
were moved or shuffled to the same node.
Finally, the reduce operation
was executed on these nodes
to add the values for
key-value pairs with the same keys.
If you look back at this example, we see
that there were four distinct steps,
namely the data split step,
the map step, the shuffle and
sort step, and the reduce step.
Although, the word count
example is pretty simple it
represents a large number of
applications that these three
steps can be applied to achieve
data parallel scalability.
We refer in general to this
pattern as "split-do-merge".
In these applications, data flows
through a number of steps, going through
transformations with various scalability
needs, leading to a final product.
The data first gets partitioned.
The split data goes through a set of
user-defined functions to do something,
ranging from statistical operations to
data joins to machine learning functions.
Depending on the application's
data processing needs,
these "do something" operations can
differ and can be chained together.
In the end results can be combined
using a merging algorithm or
a higher-order function like reduce.
We call the stitched-together
version of these sets of steps for
big data processing "big data pipelines".
The term pipe comes from
a UNIX separation that
the output of one running program gets
piped into the next program as an input.
As you might imagine,
one can string multiple programs together
to make longer pipelines with various
scalability needs at each step.
However, for big data processing,
the parallelism of each step in
the pipeline is mainly data parallelism.
We can simply define data parallelism
as running the same functions
simultaneously for the elements or
partitions of a dataset on multiple cores.
For example,
in our word count example, data
parallelism occurs in every
step of the pipeline.
There's definitely parallelization
during map over the input
as each partition gets
processed as a line at a time.
To achieve this type of data parallelism,
we must decide on the data granularity
of each parallel computation.
In this case, it is a line.
We also see a parallel grouping of
data in the shuffle and sort phase.
This time, the parallelization is
over the intermediate products,
that is, the individual key-value pairs.
And after the grouping of
the intermediate products
the reduce step gets parallelized
to construct one output file.
You have probably noticed that
the data gets reduced to a smaller set
at each step.
Although, the example we have given is for
batch processing, similar techniques
apply to stream processing.
Let's discuss this for
our simplified advanced stream
data from an online game example.
In this case, your event gets ingested
through a real time big data ingestion
engine, like Kafka or Flume.
Then they get passed into
a Streaming Data Platform for
processing like Samza,
Storm or Spark streaming.
This is a valid choice for processing
data one event at a time or chunking
the data into Windows or Microbatches
of time or other features.
Any pipeline processing of data can
be applied to the streaming data here
as we wrote in a batch-
processing Big Data engine.
The process stream data can then be
served through a real-time view or
a batch-processing view.
Real-time view is often subject to change
as potentially delayed new data comes in.
The storage of the data can be
accomplished using H-Base, Cassandra,
HDFS, or
many other persistent storage systems.
To summarize, big data pipelines
get created to process data
through an aggregated set of steps that
can be represented with the split-
do-merge pattern with
data parallel scalability.
This pattern can be
applied to many batch and
streaming data processing applications.
Next we will go through some processing
steps in a big data pipeline in
more detail, first conceptually,
then practically in Spark.